selling online has become a quick way to
turn your collectibles into cash but do
you ever wonder why some items sell like
hotcakes and others seem to just collect
dust the secret is in the online
photograph posting a dark and distorted
picture will leave a buyer confused and
weary to make a purchase while a crisp
and clear photo gives the buyer every
reason to spend their hard-earned money
today I'm going to show you how to
properly light your scene and how to
resize your digital image for the web
unlocking the secrets of online
photography next on the whole picture
welcome to the whole picture I'm Aaron
Manning you know you can buy and sell
just about anything online these days
and if you're selling something online
the photograph you use to sell your item
can make all the difference between a
sale and no sale now you want to make
sure your photo is compelling and
descriptive as possible so it alleviates
any doubt in the mind of your potential
buyer now the two things that really
entice me when I buy online are the
description and the photograph now let's
take a look at some of the photographs I
took for some online items that I sold
here's a picture of my wooden Buddha and
I just took a full front shot and tried
to fill up the screen as much as
possible so you can really see the
detail and it's always good to get a
side shot too next I took a picture of a
glass and again filled the frame got it
very close and also provided some detail
here so you can see there's some bubbles
in the glass along with any special
markings on the item that's very
important now here's some examples of
some bad pictures I found on an online
auction site this particular photograph
is too far away I can't really see
everything that's going on here
specifically because it's out of focus
and the lighting is really bad I'm
guessing they use the on-camera flash
which gives us some reflection there
this photograph we're not really seeing
the entire guitar here we're just not up
close enough and here well it's out of
focus I think it's a watch and it's
really not taking up enough of the frame
they could have they could have done a
lot better job here so we could see
everything that's going on with this
watch it's a good idea to put a little
thought into your image before you post
it online so the first thing I'll teach
you about today is composition and by
that I mean you want to create a vivid
and memorable presentation of your item
because to spark your buyers interest
you really need to capture their
attention next I'll show you how to
light the item for its best presentation
then I'll show you how to resize the
photograph on the computer now as a
professional photographer i can tell you
sometimes the photographs you take just
don't turn out as perfect as you want
them to be and that's why we'll use an
image editing software program today
on this computer finally we will upload
it to the online auction and we're off
to the races I have a student coming in
any minute by the name of Lee so I'm
going to go grab the gear before she
gets here ok here's what we'll use today
to photograph our items for the online
auction we'll start with a clip-on lamp
and this has a daylight bulb inside and
then as a backdrop for our items you can
just use common household things like
bed sheets right here and also
cream-colored butcher paper works very
well and then to reflect and bounce
light back onto your items try using
some white reflector board now I'll go
ahead and get everything set up while we
wait for Lee go ahead and take a look at
some of the other pictures I took for
online auctions
they say image is everything to the
potential buyer of an item online it's
the only thing up next I'll show you how
to maximize the details that will
maximize your sale